# Stable Equilibria of Tensegrity Frameworks

Assume we are given a tensegrity framework given by nodes `V=[n]` and edges `E={ij:i,j\in [n]}` together with an embedding `p:V\rightarrow \mathbb{R}^d`. The edges are partitioned into rigid bars `b_{ij}` with lengths `\ell_{ij}` and elastic cables `c_{ij}` with corresponding elasticity coefficients `e_{ij}` and restings lenngths `r_{ij}`. With Hooke's Law and the introduction of slack variables `\delta_{ij}` for the elastic cables, a polynomial system `G=g_{ij}` consisting of the polynomials

`b_{ij}=||p(i)-p(j)||^2-\ell_{ij}^2`,
`c_{ij}=||p(i)-p(j)||^2-\delta_{ij}^2`

arises. We  Using the energy function `Q=\sum \frac{e_{ij}}{2} (r_{ij}-\delta_{ij})^2` enables us to create the Lagrange multiplier `L = Q+\sum\lambda_{ij}g_{ij}`. Its derivative contains the critical points of the energy function subject to the variety generated by the polynomial system `G`. We are interested in its real, local minima. The sufficient condition of local minima is verified by looking at the Lagrange multiplier `L`'s Hessian and checking whether it is positive definite. This process is more thoroughly described in the underlying paper Catastrophe in Elastic Tensegrity Frameworks ([Heaton and Timme, 2020](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.13408.pdf "Tensegrity Catastrophe")).

The main method of this program is `stableEquilibria`. It has the following inputs with corresponding standard input:
+ `vertices`: This array consists of the embedded nodes of the tensegrity framework, given by arrays. If the nodes either contain internal variables or control parameters, they are included here as `@var` types from the numerical algebraic geometry package `HomotopyContinuation`. The expected input format in this case is `[[p_11, ..., p_1d], ..., [p_m1, ..., p_md]]`
+ `unknownBars`: This array consists of the rigid bars of the framework that are not yet determined by the choice of vertices. The expected input format is `[[i, j, l_ij], ...]` for a bar between the embedded vertices `p(i)` and `p(j)`.
+ `unknownCables`: This array consists of the elastic cables of the framework that are not yet determined by the choice of vertices. The expected input format is `[[i, j, r_ij, e_ij], ...]`  for a cable between the embedded vertices `p(i)` and `p(j)`.
+ `listOfInternalVariables` is a flat list of all the internal parameters of the framework (`X` in the paper).
+ `listOfControlParameters` is a flat list of all the control parameters of the framework (`\Omega` in the paper).
+ `targetParams` is a flat initial configuration of the variables in `listOfControlParameters` of the same length.
+ `knownBars` is a list of the already determined bars for plotting purposes. The expected input format is `[[i,j], ...]` for a bar between the embedded vertices `p(i)` and `p(j)`.
+ `knownCables` is a list of the already determined cables for plotting purposes. The expected input format is `[[i,j], ...]` for a cable between the embedded vertices `p(i)` and `p(j)`.
